README.md, before:

# OVH DynHost Updater

A simple, modern, and efficient command-line tool to update OVH DynHost (Dynamic DNS) records. This tool is built with TypeScript and Bun, and is designed to be compiled into a single, dependency-free binary for easy deployment.

It can update multiple DynHost records from a single configuration file and includes systemd service and timer files for automated execution.

> **A Note on Binary Size:** The single-file executable produced by `bun build --compile` is approximately 100MB. This is because it includes the Bun runtime, which allows the binary to run on any compatible system without needing a separate runtime installation. The benefit is a completely standalone deployment, eliminating the need for package managers (like `apt` or `dnf`) or build toolchains on the target system.

## Features

-   **Multiple Record Updates**: Update several DynHost records at once.
-   **Single Binary**: Compiles to a single, standalone executable. No `node_modules` or other dependencies needed on the target machine.
-   **Resilient IP Fetching**: Uses multiple public IP services (`icanhazip.com`, `api.ipify.org`) for redundancy.
-   **Systemd Integration**: Comes with `.service` and `.timer` files for easy setup as a scheduled service on Linux.
-   **Clear Logging**: Provides clean and informative output, suitable for systemd's journal.

## Prerequisites

-   [Bun](https://bun.sh/) installed on your development machine for building the project.
-   An OVH domain with DynHost records configured.

## Getting Started

### 1. Configuration

Create a `config.json` file in the root of the project. You can use `config.json.example` as a template. Add the DynHost credentials and hostnames for each record you want to update.

```json
[
  {
    "username": "your-ovh-username",
    "password": "your-ovh-password",
    "hostname": "your-domain.com"
  },
  {
    "username": "another-user",
    "password": "another-password",
    "hostname": "sub.another-domain.com"
  }
]
```

### 2. Build

Install the development dependencies and build the executable:

```bash
bun install
bun run build
```

This will create a single binary file named `ovh-dynhost-updater` in the project directory.

To build for all supported platforms (Linux, Windows, macOS), run:

```bash
bun run build:all
```

This will generate binaries for each target in the project root.

### 3. Manual Execution (Optional)

You can run the updater manually to test your configuration:

```bash
./ovh-dynhost-updater
```

## Systemd Service Installation

For automatic updates, you can install the provided systemd service and timer.

### 1. Copy Files

Copy the compiled binary and the configuration file to appropriate system locations.

```bash
# Copy the binary to a directory in your PATH
sudo cp ovh-dynhost-updater /usr/local/bin/

# Create a directory for the config and copy it
sudo mkdir -p /etc/ovh-dynhost
sudo cp config.json /etc/ovh-dynhost/config.json
```

### 2. Configure the Service

Edit the `ovh-dynhost.service` file to set the correct paths.

-   `ExecStart`: Should point to the location of your binary (e.g., `/usr/local/bin/ovh-dynhost-updater`).
-   `WorkingDirectory`: Should point to the directory containing your `config.json` (e.g., `/etc/ovh-dynhost`).

The provided service file looks like this:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=OVH DynHost Updater Service
Wants=ovh-dynhost.timer

[Service]
Type=oneshot
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/ovh-dynhost-updater
WorkingDirectory=/etc/ovh-dynhost

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### 3. Install and Start the Timer

Copy the service and timer files to the systemd directory, then enable and start the timer.

```bash
# Copy the systemd files
sudo cp ovh-dynhost.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo cp ovh-dynhost.timer /etc/systemd/system/

# Reload the systemd daemon, enable and start the timer
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable --now ovh-dynhost.timer
```

The timer is configured to run the service every 15 minutes by default. You can change this by editing the `OnCalendar` value in `ovh-dynhost.timer`.

### 4. Check the Logs

You can view the logs of the service using `journalctl`:

```bash
# View all logs for the service
journalctl -u ovh-dynhost.service

# Follow the logs in real-time
journalctl -f -u ovh-dynhost.service
```

## Development

For development, you can run the script directly with Bun without compiling it first. This allows for faster testing cycles.

```bash
bun run dev
```

### Node.js Compatibility

The script is also compatible with Node.js (v18 or newer). You can run it directly using `tsx` (a tool for executing TypeScript with Node.js) or by first compiling it to JavaScript.

To run with `tsx`:
```bash
# First, install tsx if you haven't already
npm install -g tsx

# Then run the script
tsx src/index.ts
```

Developed with the assistance of GitHub Copilot.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Refactor installation process and update documentation for OVH DynHost Updater; add install script and enhance README

README.md, after:

# OVH DynHost Updater

A simple, modern, and efficient command-line tool to update OVH DynHost (Dynamic DNS) records. This tool is built with TypeScript and Bun, and is designed to be compiled into a single, dependency-free binary for easy deployment.

It can update multiple DynHost records from a single configuration file and includes systemd service and timer files for automated execution.

> **A Note on Binary Size:** The single-file executable produced by `bun build --compile` is approximately 100MB. This is because it includes the Bun runtime, which allows the binary to run on any compatible system without needing a separate runtime installation. The benefit is a completely standalone deployment, eliminating the need for package managers (like `apt` or `dnf`) or build toolchains on the target system.

## Features

-   **Multiple Record Updates**: Update several DynHost records at once.
-   **Single Binary**: Compiles to a single, standalone executable. No `node_modules` or other dependencies needed on the target machine.
-   **Resilient IP Fetching**: Uses multiple public IP services (`icanhazip.com`, `api.ipify.org`) for redundancy.
-   **Systemd Integration**: Comes with `.service` and `.timer` files for easy setup as a scheduled service on Linux.
-   **Clear Logging**: Provides clean and informative output, suitable for systemd's journal.

## Prerequisites

-   [Bun](https://bun.sh/) installed on your development machine for building the project.
-   An OVH domain with DynHost records configured.

## Getting Started

### 1. Configuration

Create a `config.json` file in the root of the project. You can use `config.json.example` as a template. Add the DynHost credentials and hostnames for each record you want to update.

```json
[
  {
    "username": "your-ovh-username",
    "password": "your-ovh-password",
    "hostname": "your-domain.com"
  },
  {
    "username": "another-user",
    "password": "another-password",
    "hostname": "sub.another-domain.com"
  }
]
```

### 2. Build

Install the development dependencies and build the executable:

```bash
bun install
bun run build
```

This will create a single binary file named `ovh-dynhost-updater` in the project directory.

To build for all supported platforms (Linux, Windows, macOS), run:

```bash
bun run build:all
```

This will generate binaries for each target in the project root.

### 3. Manual Execution (Optional)

You can run the updater manually to test your configuration:

```bash
./ovh-dynhost-updater
```

## Systemd Service Installation

For automatic updates, you can install the provided systemd service and timer.

### Easy Installation (Linux)

On a Linux system, you can use the `install.sh` script to automate the entire process. It will download the latest release, set up the directories, and configure systemd.

```bash
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sainf/OvhDynHost/master/install.sh | sudo bash
```

### Manual Installation

#### 1. Copy Files

Copy the compiled binary and the configuration file to appropriate system locations.


```bash
# Copy the binary to a directory in your PATH
sudo cp ovh-dynhost-updater /usr/local/bin/

# Create a directory for the config and copy it
sudo mkdir -p /etc/ovh-dynhost
sudo cp config.json /etc/ovh-dynhost/config.json
```

### 2. Configure the Service

Edit the `ovh-dynhost.service` file to set the correct paths.

-   `ExecStart`: Should point to the location of your binary (e.g., `/usr/local/bin/ovh-dynhost-updater`).
-   `WorkingDirectory`: Should point to the directory containing your `config.json` (e.g., `/etc/ovh-dynhost`).

The provided service file looks like this:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=OVH DynHost Updater Service
Wants=ovh-dynhost.timer

[Service]
Type=oneshot
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/ovh-dynhost-updater
WorkingDirectory=/etc/ovh-dynhost

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### 3. Install and Start the Timer

Copy the service and timer files to the systemd directory, then enable and start the timer.

```bash
# Copy the systemd files
sudo cp ovh-dynhost.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo cp ovh-dynhost.timer /etc/systemd/system/

# Reload the systemd daemon, enable and start the timer
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable --now ovh-dynhost.timer
```

The timer is configured to run the service every 15 minutes by default. You can change this by editing the `OnCalendar` value in `ovh-dynhost.timer`.

### 4. Check the Logs

You can view the logs of the service using `journalctl`:

```bash
# View all logs for the service
journalctl -u ovh-dynhost.service

# Follow the logs in real-time
journalctl -f -u ovh-dynhost.service
```

## Development

For development, you can run the script directly with Bun without compiling it first. This allows for faster testing cycles.

```bash
bun run dev
```

### Node.js Compatibility

The script is also compatible with Node.js (v18 or newer). You can run it directly using `tsx` (a tool for executing TypeScript with Node.js) or by first compiling it to JavaScript.

To run with `tsx`:
```bash
# First, install tsx if you haven't already
npm install -g tsx

# Then run the script
tsx src/index.ts
```

Developed with the assistance of GitHub Copilot.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Releasing

This project uses the [GitHub CLI (`gh`)](https://cli.github.com/) to create releases.

1.  Make sure you have `gh` installed and authenticated (`gh auth login`).
2.  Commit your changes.
3.  Run the release script:

```bash
bun run release
```

This will build all binaries, create a new GitHub release with the version from `package.json`, generate release notes, and upload the binaries as release assets.
